do you know when your child's car seat
expires I do not that's awful no I don't
never heard of it no I didn't know they
had an expiration date they do the
general guideline is six years from
manufacturer but I didn't see anything
about an expiration date few of us are
aware of it but it's there many of them
now will have the date of manufacture
the model number and date of expiration
right on the label and some of the
others will have it embossed in the
plastic on the back do you know why car
seats expire no I'm assuming maybe
regulations change yes but plastic
degrades like food in the pantry car
seats do have a shelf life it's not just
the plastic belts can become less
elastic and hairline fractures can
develop safety experts say forget about
buying a used car seat we don't know the
seat has ever been in an accident um we
don't know if all the parts and pieces
are there we do not know how it will
respond in an actual accident crash test
videos provide chilling evidence of how
older car seat materials can fail we
take and we cut the straps out if in an
accident or expired car seats need to be
discarded or recycled by doing this it
will ensure that somebody will not
actually take the seat and use the seat
for their child car crashes are the
leading killer of children 12 12 the
best way to protect them is to put them
in the right seat and install it
correctly did you read the manual before
you installed it yes yes I did but in
fact three out of four car seats are
installed incorrectly the biggest
mistake is that they're loose to see I'm
able to move the base one inch or more
so I need to tighten that seat up
mistake number two the harness is too
loose it needs to be snug as a hug can
you check by the shoulders you know the
collar bones here to see and if there's
extra slack there it's not tight enough
at what age can you switch your child
from a rear-facing to a front facing
seat
I'm saying one year that was the old
rule the American Academy of Pediatrics
has since upped the age requirement
we're trying to keep kids rear-facing as
long as possible again at least until
age to do the kids ever ask to be in the
front seat yes they do yes a no keep
saying no the back seat is forty percent
safer than the front seat and when
rear-facing a child is cradled and
supported by the structure of the seat
which lowers their risk of injury never
ever under any circumstance put a
rear-facing car seat in the front seat
in front of an airbag the force of an
inflated air bag even in a fender bender
could kill or severely injure a child
nationally the statistics have been
showing that we've been protecting the
young kids much better but when it comes
to kids aged four to eight nearly half
are not properly protected thirty five
percent are using seatbelts prematurely
without a booster seat and fifteen
percent aren't even wearing a seatbelt
the purpose of the booster seat is just
to raise a child up so that the seat
belt fits properly what we're doing
after your booster seats save lives and
almost all states now require them found
to be fifty nine percent effective in
reducing injury a growing number of
states are now looking to raise the
requirement age for booster seats 28 do
you wear your seatbelt regularly
absolutely hunt up some time studies
also show children are more likely to be
properly restrained in booster seats or
car seats if the driver is buckled up to
I always tell him look I'm wearing my
seatbelt so he's getting it one of the
most important jobs you have as a parent
is keeping your child safe when riding
in a vehicle and that means using the
proper child safety restraint I tell him
this is a safe place for you you need to
be in it and that's the bottom line
click in the end when it comes to child
safety make sure everything's tight few
things are more important than a car
seat
think we're ready to go
you